We are just gonna go
look at individual hooks.
And we're gonna do this for
the hooks that I did not cover and
complete intro React either at all or
very well.
I used to cover literally every
hook that React puts out.
And it eventually got to the point where
they're putting out hooks now where
I just don't think you're ever
going to use them, period.
Therefore I don't think it's worth
the brain matter to store them, right?
So this is not going to be every hook
possible but it's all the ones that I
conceivably could see an app developer
wanting to use at some point.
So let's hop into hooks in depth and
useRef.
So for
this we are going to be using StackBlitz.
StackBlitz is just like CodePen or
CodeSandbox or any one of those things.
My favorite thing about stackblitzing
though is notice I'm actually running
VITE directly in the browser,
which you can't do with other ones, right?
StackBlitz has a thing called a web
container, which basically is
running node.js inside of your browser,
very impressive technology.
So we're gonna do that.
So, here's my suggestion to you.
I'm going to suggest that you hop
directly over to StackBlitz, and
I'm gonna suggest that you, yourself,
make an account on StackBlitz.
I'm not connected to
StackBlitz in any way, so
I have no reason to
encourage you otherwise.
Then to fork this, and
then you can actually just work on
your own copy of this and save it.
We're actually not gonna be
writing a ton of code on this.
We are mostly just going to be exploring
all the various different usecases
of hooks So just to get you
familiar with this project,
we have up here a little chooser
of all the various different ones.
There's also a little homepage where you
can choose which one you wanna focus on.
First, we are going to
go on to useRef first.
So, useRef allows you
to have a container so
that you can have the same
value between renders, right?
So every time that I run this
UseRefMemo component, and
we'll talk about memo
here in just a second.
But for
now just focus on this useRef hook.
So, the render target here is exactly
the DOM element that I'm going
to be rendering into.
So in this particular case I have
down here this ref as this div
being the render target.
Now, if you give it a ref which is
a React thing, not a damn DOM thing,
it's going to store this particular
div into the render target.
I want this because I'm going
to be rendering into it, right?
So this is a three.js application,
the three.js and
React don't necessarily
play well together, right?
They're not made to go together.
I'm using a third party library inside
of React that is not a React library.
There probably is like
a three.js React connector.
If you needed to do this with something
like jQuery, or maybe you have like
a React application rendering an Ember
application, it's not unheard of.
It's messy, but it's possible, right?
So I put this renderTarget onto this ref.
And now whenever I refer
to this renderTarget,
so renderTarget.current.appendChild.
So I'm actually using the direct DOM
node to insert the three.js application.
That's what ref allows you to do,
allows you to do,
allows you to grab hold
of specific DOM nodes.
And then that's just one usecase for refs.
But probably the most common one, which
is like, I need a specific DOM element.
Cuz the other thing that you could try and
do, if I say like ID equals blah, and
then I try and query the DOM for
ID equals blah.
I'm not guaranteed that that specific
same DOM element is going to
be the same one that I grabbed if
I try and query the DOM for it.
Because React reserves the right to create
and destroy any element at any time.
So the only way that you
can guarantee that you're
getting a hold of exactly the DOM
element that you want is with a ref.
I'll say that 90% of the usecase for refs
is referring directly to the dom, right?
Referring to something that exists in
the DOM and you wanna keep ahold of that.
But it's just a container, right?
So notice I'm saying renderTarget.current,
renderTarget is just,
it's an object that has exactly one
property exposed, which is current.
So the reason why they do this because
then you can have that object and
you can refer to the same thing
in that current container.
I could totally do like,
const otherRef = useRef.
And otherRef.current is assigned blah,
right, it's just like an object.
So now I have this object here, well, it's
maybe even more, it's const otherObject.
Now at any, it equals empty object here.
If I was just saying, If I was
just creating an object in here,
insideObject = blah.
This object is getting created and
destroyed every single render cycle,
right, every single time.
Whereas otherRef.current, this is
surviving between various render cycles.
So therefore I will always have
the exact same otherObject,
that might be important to you right now.
It might be important to you
to keep the same object.
So that's the the usecase for a ref is to
keep track of the exact same thing that
is triple equals to each other, right?
So if I asked later is
otherObject === otherRef.current,
right, cuz this is inside
of an effect which
is gonna happen later,
this is still true, right?
Now, if you're looking at, say,
like when the heck would I ever do that,
the answer is probably
not very frequently.
You don't usually need
the triple equals same object.
But if you have some sort of animation
frame that you're keeping track of or
something like that where that the
particular object that you're referring to
has to be the same one,
this is what refs are for.
Very niche use case.
Okay, that's abstract enough.
Does anyone have any questions about refs?
It is pretty cool that we can do 3D stuff
this easily in the browser these days,
all right?
This is not that much code
to get a little scene going
>> Why do we use ref and
passing functions or
some data and not props?
>> Why do we use refs?
So okay, this actually leads me
into my next point which is this
little thing that I talk about here,
memo, okay?
So what memo will guarantee you
if I do wrap this in memo which,
again, you notice this
is coming from React.
If I provide this exact same props to
this component, it won't rerender.
Why is this a big deal?
This is a really big deal because
I have this three.js application.
So if it rerenders,
I destroy the scene and rerender it.
That's bad, right,
I wanna keep my scene up there.
One, it's expensive to rere, and
two, it's janky if I rerender it.
So by using memo up here, I can guarantee
that as long as the props being passed
into the useRef, memo component
don't change, it doesn't rerender.
So you do this for one of two reasons.
One, performance, right?
Sometimes you have components that
are very expensive to rerender.
For example, a three.js scene is
very expensive to rerender, right?
So using memo, Guarantees that.
Now, if you're just doing it with normal
React, there's a decent chance that it
won't rerender anyway, but
you can't guarantee it.
The other reason is you have
something that would be wrong or
bad to rerender,
which is typically not the case.
Trying to think of an example of that,
maybe you have some API
request that's timely.
Either you have a nonce or
something like that and
you don't want to rerequest it or
something like that.
In which case, guaranteeing that it won't
rerender it also becomes important.
So to answer, going back to that person's
question of why is it important to
use something like memo or a a ref?
If I'm passing an object into a component
that has memo, and it's important to me
that it doesn't rerender, it's important
that it's the same object, right?
Because if it's the same object,
same shaped object that looks
exactly the same but it's not triple
equals to each to itself, right?
It's gonna cause it to rerender it and
we're gonna see which is bad.
We'll talk about that in a second cs I'm
gonna talk about callback and useMemo and
things like that, but
that's the idea here.
Now, someone's out there thinking like,
this is a good idea,
I'm gonna wrap everything in memo.
Don't do that.
That is not what I'm telling you to do.
Because memo, now you introduce a new
problem of why isn't this rerendering?
It's React,
you expect everything to rerender when
you give it new state and new props.
And generally React is
very good at rerendering.
Do not do performance optimizations until
you have a performance problem, okay?
Just please do not wrap
everything in memo.
If you take one thing away
from intermediate React,
it probably should just be that, right?
Use it only when you need it,
which is rarely.
If you're rendering three.js, yes,
rapid memo, if you're not doing
anything like that, please don't.
Have a problem before you solve a problem,
please.
Okay, Questions about memo?
We'll talk about memo again here in just
a second, but any questions about refs?
>> So does it mean that ref helps
in memorizing and props don't?
>> Props give you no help
in memorizing anything.
So if you're using a memo, sorry,
if you're using memo to function here.
And you're passing objects
into that function.
You have to use a ref or
a useMemo, or a useCallback.
I'll talk about those momentarily, so.
>> I do see refs on form inputs often.
>> Yeah, you can use refs to, it's
just referring to any DOM node, right?
Like I'm reusing a ref to
refer to this div right here.
Generally you don't need to do it with
forms cuz forms, you have events.
Events, you can use things like formData
and event.target or event.current target.
You don't necessarily need to refer to,
you don't need a ref to
refer to those DOM elements.
It's possible when suggested, but
I think using events is
the cleaner way of doing it.
We talk about that in complete intro.